content/work/ava-risk-group-work.md, before:

---
title: "Technical Business Analyst at Ava Risk Group"
date: 2018-01-16T09:38:03+10:00
categories: ["Software", "Testing", "Data analysis"]
description: "I was the first non-PhD to be employed here."
icon: "images/icons/icons8-artificial-intelligence-50.png"
---

Do you remember the American sitcom series [The Big Bang Theory](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0898266/)? Imagine being Penny Barber working with Sheldon Cooper and his gang every single day. I was Penny at [Ava Risk Group](https://www.theavagroup.com) (then called [Future Fibre Technologies](https://www.fftsecurity.com)). It was an honour working in the Research and Development team with all extremely brilliant minds in the fields of Physics, Electronics, Mechanics and IT. Their jokes often went above my head but I got to experiment and gain an incredible amount of skills in software development, business analysis, quality assurance and technical documentation.
My huge gratitude goes to my project manager Alex Adams.

In my three years there I worked on a lot of projects and I can't really discuss most of them in detail due to signed confidentiality agreements. There are three projects I can share with you here.

## Automatic product versioning system
Every time a new version of the products was to be released, the software developers in the Research and Development team spent a lot of time manually editing and updating the version details in all the code libraries and software products they developed. Each product has a set of developers building it with their own versioning conventions. I was tasked with interviewing each set of developers and to figure out a mechanism to automate this process. 

Based on the requirements, I wrote software code to automate this process using C#.Net and Model-View-ViewModel (MVVM) framework. It automatically updated versioning information of each library, patch, update and software product of the company. This code saved a lot of developers' time by running as part of the batch processes in the build and production server and improved system development efficiency. 

## Data analysis using advanced Microsoft Excel
The company was developing a new one-of-a-kind product and I was a part of performing its proof of concept. I gathered and analysed requirements from both, internal and external stakeholders and configured the new features of the products in a way that eliminated the possibility of error in its outputs. For doing so, I had to perform field and software tests, collect output data generated from these products, and use advanced Microsoft Excel to identify defects and anomalies in the data. I was also responsible for documenting the users' requirements, configuration and test environment, and results of my data analysis. These results were then used by the software developers of various products and other key internal stakeholders to plan, fix and enhance the systems to provide optimum results to the user. 

## Revamping quality assurance delivery process
The software tests, test cases, references to backlog items and bugs, various test results and artefacts were not maintained in a systematic form. The product owner, developers and software testers spent a lot of their time searching for test results to track product performance. I noticed this issue and started investigating it by interviewing a few developers in the team and researching through various mediums for existing solutions. 

I then approached my Project Manager with a few recommendations in our one-on-one meetings. He appreciated the ideas and asked me to start working on them with the senior Quality Assurance Engineer. We came up with a quality management plan which involved streamlining the software delivery process by introducing certain automated testing along with the existing manual processes. I was also responsible for documenting these processes and coming up with standards for writing and maintaining test cases and test suites. 

* This reduced the overall quality assurance delivery time by up to 20% 
* Introduced quick accessibility to test results 
* Improved products' performance tracking.

Commit message:

added responsibilities to the work. added MLC work.

content/work/ava-risk-group-work.md, after:

---
title: "Technical Business Analyst at Ava Risk Group"
date: 2018-01-16T09:38:03+10:00
categories: ["Software", "Testing", "Data analysis"]
description: "I was the first non-PhD to be employed here."
icon: "images/icons/icons8-artificial-intelligence-50.png"
---
## My responsibilities
* Drive development and testing of signal processing algorithms using the Agile Scrum framework via Azure DevOps. 
* Gather and analyse technical system requirements from key stakeholders to configure software and hardware components for client environments. 
* Perform gap analysis and provide recommendations for the enhancement of the software delivery framework. 
* Extract, validate, and calibrate new data, and perform analysis using advanced Microsoft Excel to identify defects in output generated by proprietary products. 

## The story
Do you remember the American sitcom series [The Big Bang Theory](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0898266/)? Imagine being Penny Barber working with Sheldon Cooper and his gang every single day. I was Penny at [Ava Risk Group](https://www.theavagroup.com) (then called [Future Fibre Technologies](https://www.fftsecurity.com)). It was an honour working in the Research and Development team with all extremely brilliant minds in the fields of Physics, Electronics, Mechanics and IT. Their jokes often went above my head but I got to experiment and gain an incredible amount of skills in software development, business analysis, quality assurance and technical documentation.
My huge gratitude goes to my project manager Alex Adams.

In my three years there I worked on a lot of projects and I can't really discuss most of them in detail due to signed confidentiality agreements. There are three projects I can share with you here.

### Automatic product versioning system
Every time a new version of the products was to be released, the software developers in the Research and Development team spent a lot of time manually editing and updating the version details in all the code libraries and software products they developed. Each product has a set of developers building it with their own versioning conventions. I was tasked with interviewing each set of developers and to figure out a mechanism to automate this process. 

Based on the requirements, I wrote software code to automate this process using C#.Net and Model-View-ViewModel (MVVM) framework. It automatically updated versioning information of each library, patch, update and software product of the company. This code saved a lot of developers' time by running as part of the batch processes in the build and production server and improved system development efficiency. 

### Data analysis using advanced Microsoft Excel
The company was developing a new one-of-a-kind product and I was a part of performing its proof of concept. I gathered and analysed requirements from both, internal and external stakeholders and configured the new features of the products in a way that eliminated the possibility of error in its outputs. For doing so, I had to perform field and software tests, collect output data generated from these products, and use advanced Microsoft Excel to identify defects and anomalies in the data. I was also responsible for documenting the users' requirements, configuration and test environment, and results of my data analysis. These results were then used by the software developers of various products and other key internal stakeholders to plan, fix and enhance the systems to provide optimum results to the user. 

### Revamping quality assurance delivery process
The software tests, test cases, references to backlog items and bugs, various test results and artefacts were not maintained in a systematic form. The product owner, developers and software testers spent a lot of their time searching for test results to track product performance. I noticed this issue and started investigating it by interviewing a few developers in the team and researching through various mediums for existing solutions. 

I then approached my Project Manager with a few recommendations in our one-on-one meetings. He appreciated the ideas and asked me to start working on them with the senior Quality Assurance Engineer. We came up with a quality management plan which involved streamlining the software delivery process by introducing certain automated testing along with the existing manual processes. I was also responsible for documenting these processes and coming up with standards for writing and maintaining test cases and test suites. 

* This reduced the overall quality assurance delivery time by up to 20% 
* Introduced quick accessibility to test results 
* Improved products' performance tracking.
