content/work/systems-analyst-monash-university.md, before:

---
title: "Systems Analyst at Monash University"
date: 
categories: ["Education Technology"]
icon: "images/icons/icons8-ios-photos-50.png"
---

I was lucky to be employed at Monash University's eSolutions in the most interesting time. The University was going through a massive technology and process uplift and was spending an impressive amount of money in this transformation. They were adopting the Agile ways of working using the Scrum methodology, performing an enterprise architecture review and reconstruction, and finding ways to improve enterprise-wide communication and user experience. Being the largest university in Australia with approximately 86,000 students and almost 17,000 academic and professional staff, the planned changes were incredibly challenging and extremely big. I was engaged in three major projects:

* setting up and automating Business Intelligence (BI) reporting system
* procuring two third-party applications
* adoptiong and becoming a subject matter expert for an operational intelligence tool - Splunk

## Setting up and automating a BI reporting system 
The technology division of Monash University - eSolutions used BMC Helix Remedy as its ticket management, change management, and problem management solution. I was tasked with integrating the Business Intelligence reporting and analytics tool - BMC Smart Reporting with BMC Remedy, automating reports and dashboard generation on this tool, and training team leaders and managers from across multiple teams in its usage. All of this had to be done in the most cost-effective way. 

I first started by gathering requirements through one-on-one interviews, questionnaires, user observation of the current work environment and finally group interviews/workshops. I then transferred all of these business requirements into functional requirements, and documented and presented them to my project manager. Upon getting the approval, I followed the following steps: 

* Setup naming conventions and data standards for the reports and dashboard for the new BI system 
* Automate reports and dashboards generation process within the BI system to cater to users' requirements 
* Spin-up an Apache server with various security protocols 
* Write automation scripts to export certain specific reports and dashboards from BMC Smart Reporting to the Apache server only accessible to the directors and top management 

The aftermath: 
* The overall transparency, performance, work efficiency, and accountability of various service delivery teams within eSolutions improved.
* Decision making for team leaders, directors and top-level management became quicker, easier and data-driven.
* The support teams’ issue management response time reduced by 20%.

## Procurement of two major third-party applications
The University had to procure two major automation tools - one an organisation-wide employee rostering system, and a mass incident notification tool. These tools were to be used by over 400 internal and external stakeholders of Monash University. I was responsible for gathering, analysing and documenting requirements from managers, team leaders, and directors through one-on-one interviews, questionnaires, user observation of the current work environment and finally group interviews/workshops. 

Since it involved many teams across the business, I had to choose a sample of users and managers to perform requirements elicitation. Based on these requirements, I produced the following documents: 
* Requirements specification document 
* Request for Information 
* Request for Proposal 
* Request for Quotation 

I had to be in continuous communication with various vendors and acted as a liaison between them and my project manager while organising proof of concepts and implementation meetings. 

## Subject matter expert on Splunk
My team was responsible for learning, implementing, adapting and acting as subject matter experts for the operational intelligence tool - Splunk. I underwent training in the system's usage and its infrastructure. I then was a part of coming up with business use cases for implementing Splunk in the University environment. I then acted as a liaison between the data warehouse team and my team to implement Splunk pipeline which observed and analysed students' location data within the Monash University campuses based on their connectivity to the University's Wi-Fi routers. This data was then used to map and forecast the student population at specific locations at specific times during the day. This enabled the University to plan and setup important student services booths at or near those specific locations to provide the best possible services in the most accessible way.

Commit message:

updated work at monash description and content

content/work/systems-analyst-monash-university.md, after:

---
title: "Systems Analyst at Monash University"
date: 
categories: ["Education Technology"]
description: "I was employed at Monash University's eSolutions in the most interesting time."
icon: "images/icons/icons8-microphone-50.png"
icon: "images/icons/icons8-ios-photos-50.png"
---

I was lucky to be employed at Monash University's eSolutions in the most interesting time. It was July 2016 and the University was going through a massive technology and process uplift and was spending an impressive amount of money in this transformation. They were adopting the Agile ways of working using the Scrum methodology, performing an enterprise architecture review and reconstruction, and finding ways to improve enterprise-wide communication and user experience. Being the largest university in Australia with approximately 86,000 students and almost 17,000 academic and professional staff, the planned changes were incredibly challenging and extremely big. I was engaged in three major projects:

* setting up and automating Business Intelligence (BI) reporting system
* procuring two third-party applications
* adoptiong and becoming a subject matter expert for an operational intelligence tool - Splunk

## Setting up and automating a BI reporting system 
The technology division of Monash University - eSolutions used BMC Helix Remedy as its ticket management, change management, and problem management solution. I was tasked with integrating the Business Intelligence reporting and analytics tool - BMC Smart Reporting with BMC Remedy, automating reports and dashboard generation on this tool, and training team leaders and managers from across multiple teams in its usage. All of this had to be done in the most cost-effective way. 

I first started by gathering requirements through one-on-one interviews, questionnaires, user observation of the current work environment and finally group interviews/workshops. I then transferred all of these business requirements into functional requirements, and documented and presented them to my project manager. Upon getting the approval, I followed the following steps: 

* Setup naming conventions and data standards for the reports and dashboard for the new BI system 
* Automate reports and dashboards generation process within the BI system to cater to users' requirements 
* Spin-up an Apache server with various security protocols 
* Write automation scripts to export certain specific reports and dashboards from BMC Smart Reporting to the Apache server only accessible to the directors and top management 

The aftermath: 
* The overall transparency, performance, work efficiency, and accountability of various service delivery teams within eSolutions improved.
* Decision making for team leaders, directors and top-level management became quicker, easier and data-driven.
* The support teams’ issue management response time reduced by 20%.

## Procurement of two major third-party applications
The University had to procure two major automation tools - one an organisation-wide employee rostering system, and a mass incident notification tool. These tools were to be used by over 400 internal and external stakeholders of Monash University. I was responsible for gathering, analysing and documenting requirements from managers, team leaders, and directors through one-on-one interviews, questionnaires, user observation of the current work environment and finally group interviews/workshops. 

Since it involved many teams across the business, I had to choose a sample of users and managers to perform requirements elicitation. Based on these requirements, I produced the following documents: 
* Requirements specification document 
* Request for Information 
* Request for Proposal 
* Request for Quotation 

I had to be in continuous communication with various vendors and acted as a liaison between them and my project manager while organising proof of concepts and implementation meetings. 

## Subject matter expert on Splunk
My team was responsible for learning, implementing, adapting and acting as subject matter experts for the operational intelligence tool - Splunk. I underwent training in the system's usage and its infrastructure. I then was a part of coming up with business use cases for implementing Splunk in the University environment. I then acted as a liaison between the data warehouse team and my team to implement Splunk pipeline which observed and analysed students' location data within the Monash University campuses based on their connectivity to the University's Wi-Fi routers. This data was then used to map and forecast the student population at specific locations at specific times during the day. This enabled the University to plan and setup important student services booths at or near those specific locations to provide the best possible services in the most accessible way.
